## Cloud Run Data in GCS and Firestore

### Introduction

In this lab, we'll deploy a basic image gallery app with Cloud Run, and then refactor it so it uses Cloud Storage
instead of local file system storage. Then, we'll add the ability to add metadata to images, which we'll store in the
Cloud Firestore NoSQL database. You should be familiar with the GCP console and Cloud Shell to perform this hands-on
lab. Some experience with Python will be beneficial.

> Note: The code for this lab can be found in the image-gallery directory in the
> course [GitHub repo](https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive).

### How to Log in to Google Lab Accounts

On the lab page, right-click Open Google Console and select the option to open it in a new private browser window (this
option will read differently depending on your browser — e.g., in Chrome, it says "Open Link in Incognito Window").
Then, sign in to Google Cloud Platform using the credentials provided on the lab page.

On the Welcome to your new account screen, review the text, and click Accept. In the "Welcome Cloud Student!" pop-up
once you're signed in, check to agree to the terms of service, choose your country of residence, and click Agree and
Continue.

### Deploy the image-gallery App to Cloud Run

- Click the icon in the upper right (which looks like >_) to activate Cloud Shell.
- Click Continue in the pane that appears at the bottom of the screen.
- Enable the APIs we need for the lab:

```bash
gcloud services enable run.googleapis.com \
cloudbuild.googleapis.com
```

- Clone the lab Git repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive/
```

- Change to the repo directory:

```bash
cd content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive/
```

- Change to the `image-gallery/1-local-storage` directory:

```bash
cd image-gallery/1-local-storage
```

- Build the container image, replacing `<PROJECT_ID>` with yours (when you copy it in the terminal, it automatically
  adds it
  to your clipboard so you can paste it):

```bash
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/<PROJECT_ID>/image-gallery .
```

- Set the platform to managed:

```bash
gcloud config set run/platform managed
```

- Set the region:

```bash
gcloud config set run/region us-east1
```

- Deploy the container:

```
gcloud run deploy --cpu=2 --max-instances=1 --memory=4Gi image-gallery --image gcr.io/<PROJECT_ID>/image-gallery
```

- Enter `y` at the prompt.
- In the console, click the hamburger menu icon in the upper left to navigate to Cloud Run.
- Click image-gallery.
- Click the listed URL for the `image-gallery` app.
- On the `image-gallery` site, upload a photo of a dog. Leave this browser tab open.

### Refactor the App to Use Cloud Storage

- In the GCP console, click the hamburger menu icon in the upper left.
- Click Storage.
- Click Create Bucket.
- For its globally unique name, enter your project ID (which you copied earlier) with `-images` appended at the end (
  e.g., **<PROJECT_ID>-images**).
- Leave the rest at their defaults, and click Create.
- Copy the name of the bucket, and paste it into a text file, as we'll need it in a moment.
- In the Cloud Shell, click Open Editor.
- Expand `content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive` > `image-gallery` > `2-cloud-storage`.
- Click the `app.py` file.
- In the editing window, replace `<YOUR-BUCKET-NAME>- with the name of your bucket (which you just copied).
- Click File > Save.
- Click Open Terminal.
- Change to the `2-cloud-storage` directory:

```bash
cd ~
cd content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive/image-gallery/2-cloud-storage
```

- Rebuild the container:

```bash
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/<PROJECT_ID>/image-gallery .
```

- Deploy the updated version:

```bash
gcloud run deploy --cpu=2 --max-instances=1 --memory=4Gi image-gallery --image gcr.io/<PROJECT_ID>/image-gallery
```

- Reload the `image-gallery` site. The photo you uploaded will disappear once it's refreshed.
- Re-upload the photo of a dog.
- In the GCP console, on the Cloud Storage page, refresh your bucket. We should see the image has been saved there.
- Navigate to Cloud Run > image-gallery.
- Click Edit & Deploy New Revision.
- Leave the defaults, and click Deploy.
- Refresh the `image-gallery` site. The image should persist.

### Deploy the Cloud Firestore Version of the App

- Click the hamburger menu icon in the upper left to navigate to Firestore.
- Click Select Native Mode.
- Set us-east1 as the region.
- Click Create Database.
- In the Cloud Shell, click Open Editor.
- Expand `content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive` > `image-gallery` > `3-firestore`.
- Click the `app.py` file.
- In the editing window, replace `<YOUR-BUCKET-NAME>` with the name of your bucket.
- Click File > Save.
- Click Open Terminal.
- Change to the 3-firestore directory:

```bash
cd ~
cd content-google-cloud-run-deep-dive/image-gallery/3-firestore
```

- Rebuild the container:

```bash
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/<PROJECT_ID>/image-gallery .
```

- Deploy the updated version:

```bash
gcloud run deploy --cpu=2 --max-instances=1 --memory=4Gi image-gallery --image gcr.io/<PROJECT_ID>/image-gallery
```

- Reload the `image-gallery` site. The photo we uploaded will disappear once it's refreshed.
- Upload a photo of a dog, and add a description.
- In the GCP console, refresh the Firestore page, where we should now see a document has been created.

### Conclusion

Congratulations on successfully completing this hands-on lab!
