## Managing Google Cloud SQL Instances

### Introduction

In this hands-on lab, we'll manage multiple instances, including creating, cloning, starting, stopping, restarting,
and — eventually — deleting them. By the end, we'll be familiar with the steps necessary to handle Cloud SQL instances
completely.

### Solution

Sign in to Google Cloud Platform using the credentials provided for the lab.

On the Welcome to your new account screen, review the text and click I understand. Then, check to agree to the terms of
service, choose your country of residence, and click AGREE AND CONTINUE.

### Create an Instance

- Navigate to SQL using the sidebar menu or the search bar along the top menu.
- Click CREATE INSTANCE.
- For the Choose your database engine option, click Choose MySQL.
- In the Instance ID field, enter an instance ID (e.g., acg-sql).
- In the Password field, enter a password (e.g., root).
- Select the Enterprise edition
- From the dropdown, select the preset for Development.
- In the Choose region and zonal availability section, set the Zonal availability field to Single zone (as we don't need
  high availability for this lab).
- Fill in the Customize your instance section:
    - Expand SHOW CONFIGURATION OPTIONS.
    - Machine type: Expand this subsection, then use the dropdown to select Shared core.
    - Storage: Expand this subsection, then set the Storage capacity field to 10 GB.
    - Data Protection: Expand this subsection, then uncheck the Enable deletion protection checkbox.
- Click CREATE INSTANCE.
  The instance will take a few minutes to spin up.

### Create a Database

- Select your newly created Cloud SQL instance.
- From the instance's sidebar menu, select Databases.
- Click CREATE DATABASE.
- In the Database Name field, enter a name (e.g., sql_data).
- Leave all other default settings and click CREATE.

### Clone the Instance

- From the instance's sidebar menu, select Overview.
- Along the top of the instance details, click CLONE.
- (Optional) In the Instance ID field, enter a new name for the clone.
- Select Clone current state of instance.
- Click CREATE CLONE.

### Stop and Start an Instance

- Ensure your first instance is selected (use the All instances breadcrumb along the top of the page if needed).
- Click STOP along the top of the page, then click STOP again in the confirmation pop-up.
- After the instance has stopped, click START, then click START again in the confirmation pop-up.

### Restart an Instance

- Select your cloned instance (use the All instances breadcrumb along the top of the page if needed).
- Click RESTART along the top of the page, then click RESTART again in the confirmation pop-up.

### Delete an Instance

- Ensure your cloned instance is selected.
- Along the top of the page, click DELETE.
- In the confirmation pop-up, enter the clone's instance ID.
- Click DELETE.

### Conclusion

Congratulations on completing this lab!
