## Working with Data in Google Cloud SQL

### Introduction

SQL databases are a foundation of computing in general, and cloud computing is no exception. Cloud SQL is a particularly
robust implementation of a relational database service with rapid scalability, high availability, and secure
replication. In this hands-on lab, you'll set up a Cloud SQL instance, add a MySQL database, and import the schema and
data of a large dataset. Once it’s set up, you'll run through several sample queries.

### Logging In

- On the lab page, click Open Link in Incognito Window to copy the link for Google Cloud Platform. Then, paste and open
  the link in an incognito window or private browser session.
- Sign in to Google Cloud Platform using the credentials provided on the lab page.
- On the Welcome to your new account screen, review the text, and click Accept.
- On the Welcome Cloud Student! screen, check to agree to the terms of service, and select your country of residence.
- Click Agree and Continue.

> Note: The following locations are allowed in the lab: US-East-1, US-West-1, US-Central-1, Europe-West-1, and
> Australia-Southeast-1

### Enable APIs

- On the left-hand side menu, navigate to APIs & Services > Library.
- Search for SQL.
- Select Cloud SQL.
- Click Enable.
- From the left panel, click Library.
- Search for SQL.
- Select the Cloud SQL Admin.
- You should see a green check mark next to API enabled.

### Create Cloud Storage Bucket

- In the top left, click on the navigation icon and choose Cloud Storage > Buckets.
- Click Create Bucket.
- Name the bucket uniquely and click Continue.
- In the Location Type section, select Region and click Continue.

> Note: The following locations are allowed in the lab: US-East-1, US-West-1, US-Central-1, Europe-West-1, and
> Australia-Southeast-1).

- Click Create.
- In the dialog that appears, click Confirm.

### Clone a GitHub Repository and Copy to Bucket

- Click the Activate Cloud Shell icon in the top-right corner. This may take a moment.
- Click Continue.
- Clear your screen:

```bash
clear
```

- From the Cloud Shell, issue the following command to clone the repository for this course:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/pluralsight-cloud/Lab-Working-with-Data-in-Google-Cloud-SQL
```

- Move into the sql-lab folder:

```bash
cd Lab-Working-with-Data-in-Google-Cloud-SQL
```

- List the files:

```bash
ls
```

- Clear your screen:

```bash
clear
```

- Copy the files to the bucket:

```bash
gsutil cp * gs://<BUCKET_NAME>
```

- Click Authorize.

> Note: If you encounter a permissions errors, enter gcloud auth login and follow the steps to re-authorize.

### Create a Cloud SQL Instance

- On the left-hand side menu, navigate to SQL.
- Click Create instance.
- Select Choose MySQL.
- Select Choose Enterprise.
- Set Instance ID to ps-met.
- Set Root password to root.
- Under Choose region and zonal availability select Single zone deployment (as we don't need high availability for this
  lab) and choose the same region you used for your bucket.

> Note: The following locations are allowed in the lab: US-East-1, US-West-1, US-Central-1, Europe-West-1, and
> Australia-Southeast-1).

- Expand Customize your instance.
- Under Machine configuration > Machine shapes, set Machine type to 1 vCPU, 3.75 GB.
- Under Storage > Storage capacity, select 10 GB.
- Click Create Instance. It will take a few minutes to spin up.

### Create Database, Table, and Import Schema

- From the SQL dashboard, click the ps-met entry.
- Select Databases on the left-hand side.
- Click Create database.
- Name the database met_museum.
- Leave the other settings as their defaults, and click Create.
- Navigate back to the ps-met Overview page and click Import at the top.
- Locate the bucket containing the uploaded files by clicking Browse.
- Choose MetObjects_Table.sql, and click Select.
- Make sure the File format is set to SQL.
- From the Database list, choose met_museum.
- Click Import.

### Import Data

- Click Import.
- Locate the bucket containing the uploaded files by clicking Browse.
- Choose MetObjects_subset.csv, and click Select.
- Make sure the File format is set to CSV.
- From the Database list, choose met_museum.
- In the Table field, enter MetObjects.
- Click Import.

### Query Database

- In the Cloud Shell, connect to the database instance with the following command:

```bash
gcloud sql connect ps-met --user=root
```

- If asked `Would you like to enable and retry`, enter `y`.
- When prompted, enter the password: **root**.
- Declare the database to use:

```sql
use met_museum;
```

- Enter the following query:

```sql
SELECT Title, Medium
FROM MetObjects
LIMIT 20;
```

- Then, enter this query:

```sql
SELECT Title, Medium, Link_Resource
FROM MetObjects
WHERE Object_Begin_Date >= '2000'
LIMIT 20;
Click any link returned to view a Met object.
```

### Conclusion

Congratulations — you've completed this hands-on lab!
