## Setting Up for Google Cloud Spanner

In this hands-on lab, we’ll walk through the process of establishing a Cloud Spanner instance and then creating a
populated database to manage: from querying data to exporting it to Google Cloud Storage.

### How to Log in to Google Lab Accounts

On the lab page, right-click Open GCP Console and select the option to open it in a new private browser window (this
option will read differently depending on your browser — e.g., in Chrome, it says "Open Link in Incognito Window").
Then, sign in to Google Cloud Platform using the credentials provided on the lab page.

On the Welcome to your new account screen, review the text, and click Accept. In the "Welcome L.A.!" pop-up once you're
signed in, check to agree to the terms of service, choose your country of residence, and click Agree and Continue.

### Setting Up for Cloud Spanner

Now, on to the lab!

### Enable APIs.

- Navigate to APIs & Services > Library.
- Search for "Cloud Spanner".
- Select the Cloud Spanner API card.
- Click Enable.
- Head back to APIs & Services > Library.
- Search for "dataflow".
- Select the Dataflow API card.
- Click Enable.
- One last time, head to APIs & Services > Library.
- Search for "storage".
- Select the Cloud Storage card.
- We should see it's already enabled. (If it isn't, click Enable.)

### Create a Cloud Spanner instance.

- Navigate to Spanner.
- Click Create instance.
- Provide the following details:
    - Instance name: la-spanner
    - Configuration: Regional, us-central1
    - Nodes: 1
- Click Create.

### Create database and table.

- Click Create database.
- Name the database (e.g., "la-db-spanner").
- Leave the dialect set to Google Standard SQL.
  -In the Define your schema section enter the following code in the DDL statements box:

```sql
CREATE TABLE Artists
(
    ArtistId  INT64 NOT NULL,
    FirstName STRING(1024),
    LastName  STRING(1024),
    BirthDate DATE
) PRIMARY KEY(ArtistId);
```

- Click Create.

### Populate table.

Click on the Artists table.

- Review the schema.
- Click Data.
- Click Insert and a query window will open.
- In the values section of the query, enter the following records between the parentheses making sure to replace the
  example data
- Click Format Query and wait for the query to show as valid.
- Click Run:

```sql
100,
"Paul",
"Cezanne",
DATE("1839-01-19")

101,
"Ansel",
"Adams",
DATE("1902-02-20")

102,
"Frida",
"Kahloe",
DATE("1907-07-06")
```

### Editing data.

- Click on Data.
- Select the checkbox next to the Frida Kahloe record.
- Choose Edit.
- In the SET section of the query, change the LastName to Kahlo.
- Click Run.

- ### Query data.
- In the query window, click New Tab.
- In the Query field, enter:

```sql
SELECT *
from Artists
WHERE BirthDate > '1900-01-01'
```

- Click Run.
- Review results.

### Export data.

- First, we need to create a bucket. Navigate to Storage (via the search bar at the top of the console).
- Click Create Bucket.
- Provide the following details:
    - Name: la-spanner-export-<INSERT NUMBERS OR LETTERS HERE> (must be unique across all Cloud Storage)
    - Default storage class: Regional
    - Location: us-central1
- Click Create.
- Leave the public access prevention setting as the default.
- Navigate back to Spanner.
- Choose the database instance from left sidebar.
- From the menu, click on Import/Export.
- Click on Export.
- Provide the following details:
    - Choose where to store your export: Browse and select the newly created bucket
    - Choose a database to export: Select your database
    - Choose a region for the export job: us-central1
- Click Confirm charges checkbox.
- Click Export.
- Visit Cloud Spanner to view progress of operation.
- Visit Cloud Storage bucket to confirm operation.

### Conclusion

Congratulations on completing this lab!
